EXERCISES

1.
    1.  String
    2.  Integer
    3.  Date
    4.  Float
    5.  Money

2.  External data sources are necessary, whether as a database or a text file, because storing data in the program itself does not allow the data to save when the program stops running.
    A text file can be used to accomplish this, but if there are multiple instances of the program running, the data will not add to the text file correctly.
    Therefore, a text file can be used when data needs to live outside of the application, but only one instance of the program will ever run at a time.
    A database should be used whenever data needs to live outside of the application AND there is a chance that more than one instance of the program will run concurrently.

3.  One difference between SQL and other programming languages is that SQL uses a single = to denote equallity instead of a double == symbol.

4.  Data in a relational database is arranged in various tables.
    Data can be stored, manipulated, or retrieved.
    Each column of the table represents a different aspect of the data (somewhat like how each attribute of an object describes the value it holds).
    Each row of the table represents a single instance of data. The values in the different columns are associated by row in this way.
    Each cell holds an individual data value, so that a particular "attribute" of a particular instance of data is represented by the value of the cell at the intersection of the appropriate row and column.

5.  See above.

6.  1.  Dates
    2.  Numerical values
    3.  Strings

7.  1.  This query asks for the date and amount columns from the payments table.
        Since it doesn't specify anything using a WHERE clause, it will return all of the data from those columns.
    2.  This query asks for the amount column from the payments table for all records where the amount is greater than 500.
        It will return the amount 1500.00
    3.  This query asks to return all columns from the payments table for the record where payee is equal to "Mega Foods".
        It will return:
            Date:   2016-05-15
            Payee:  Mega Foods
            Amount: 124.93
            Memo:   Groceries

8.
    1.
        SELECT email, signup
        FROM users
        WHERE name = 'DeAndre Data';

        SELECT userid
        FROM users
        WHERE email = 'aleesia.algorithm@uw.edu';

        SELECT *
        FROM users
        WHERE userid = 4;
